Hello everyone and welcome to the introduction to try methods lecture in this lecture we'll discuss
decision trees and ran them for us as machine learning models.
If you want the mathematics behind these topics go ahead and read Chapter eight of an introduction to
statistical learning.
Let's start off with a thought experiment to give a little bit of motivation behind why we would use
a decision tree method.
Imagine that I play tennis every Saturday and I always invite a friend to come play with me.
Sometimes a friend shows up sometimes not for him.
It depends on a variety of factors such as weather temperature humidity wind etc..
I start keeping track of these features and whether or not he showed up to play with me and my data
looks something like this.
Each of these columns represents a feature and each of the rows represents a certain day.
I go ahead and for each row or a day take note of features.
And finally at the final column I have a label.
Whether or not my friend came to play with me so he can see on the first day I have temperature mild
a sunny outlook.
Humidity of 80.
Windy.
It was not and my friend came out to play.
However in Day 2 it was a hot temperature sunny outlook 75 humidity.
It was windy and my friend did not comply with me.
I CAN BUILD IT decision tree off of this process.
I want to use this data to predict whether or not my friend is going to show up to play in an intuitive
way to do this is through a decision tree.
And this is what a decision tree may look like or the data I just showed in this tree.
We have notes and notes split for the value of a certain attribute we can he can see here we have Outlook
nodes.
Humidity nodes and windy nodes.
So each of these attributes are nodes and then we have edges edges are the outcome of a split to the
next node.
In this true we also have a root node.
That's the note that performs the first split.
So in this particular example the root node is the outlook feature.
I performed the first split and I split into the possible categories of sunny overcast and rain and
then those will lead to other nodes such as humidity and windy.
The coloured nodes which are yeses and nos are leaves and those with terminal nose that predict the
outcome.
Let's go ahead and discuss intuition behind splitting on these nodes.
Imagine now that I have this data with three features X Y and Z and I'm trying to predict two possible
classes.
Class A or Class B splitting on y gives us a clear separation between classes.
So I asked Does Weichel one I get perfect separation of the two class instances of class A and the two
instances of class B.
Again if I go back.
Check out this imaginary data.
Note how the Y feature split the classes perfectly and also note how the x and z features don't split
the classes perfectly meaning I could have also tried splitting on other features.
First if I split on X first or Z first I don't get proper separation of those classes.
Entropy and information gain are the mathematical methods of choosing the best split.
Go ahead to refer to the reading assignment if you're interested in the mathematics behind the intuition
but the actual intuition is just trying to choose the features that best split your data.
This is called trying to maximize your information gain off of this split.
Again refer to chapter 8 if you want more information on the mathematics behind these topics of entropy
in information gain.
Now let's talk about random force as a way to improve performance off single decision trees.
The primary weakness of decision trees is that they don't tend to have the best predictive accuracy
.
This is partially due to the high variance meaning that different splits in the training data can lead
to very different trees.
Bagging is a general purpose procedure for reducing the variance of machine learning method that's discussed
in Chapter 8 of the reading assignment.
We can build off the idea of bagging by utilizing random force random force.
It's just a slight variation of these Bagga trees that has even better performance.
Which is what we're going to be discussing and coding out in our what we do have around the forest as
we create an ensemble of decision trees using bootstrap samples of the training set bootstrap samples
of the training set just means sampling from the training set with replacement.
However we're building each tree each time a split is considered a random sample of M features is chosen
as a split candidate from the full set of p features.
The split is only allowed to use one of those m features a new random sample of features is chosen for
every single tree every single split for classification.
This M. random sample of M features is typically chosen to be the square root of P where P is the full
set of features.
You may be wondering what's the point of using random force.
Well suppose there is one very strong feature in the dataset a feature that's really strong at predicting
a certain class when using bagged trees.
That's that bootstrap sampling.
Most of the trees will use that feature as the top split that's going to result in ensemble of really
similar trees that are highly correlated which is something you want to avoid averaging highly correlated
quantities does not significantly reduce variance.
I randomly leaving out candidate features from each split random force are going to d correlate to trees
.
Meaning making the trees in the pendant of each other such that that averaging process can reduce the
variance of the resulting model.
So we won't be affected by features that really strongly predict the class data.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and begin to explore some examples of building out the sentries
and ran the course then you'll have a project to test your own understanding.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture